Good morning and welcome.
This is the Adopting Xcode:
A Hands-on Tour.
How many of you were here for
the 9:00 session this morning,
the introduction to Xcode 2.1?
Same seats and everything.
Good.
How many of you have not used
Xcode before or have only
used Xcode 1.5 or earlier?
Good.
You're the right audience for this.
This is going to be a little adventurous.
This is the first hands-on
session that we've done.
This is not going to be
me talking slides at you.
This is not even going to be a demo.
This will be a follow-me session.
I see a lot of PowerBooks open.
That's great.
I hope you have fully charged
batteries for this one.
And we want you to have Xcode 2.1
installed and the appearance sample
upgrade project downloaded from ADC.
How many of you are in that situation?
Awesome!
Okay, the rest of you, if you don't,
you can either watch what
we're doing on the screen or
watch your neighbor's screen.
We're going to try to take it milestone
by milestone so that you can follow
us and look at what we're doing.
I'm Chris Espinosa,
the manager of DT Productivity.
We're going to be introducing the
Xcode development environment for
you who haven't used it before.
It's a full function
development environment that
integrates project management,
a code editor, a build system,
and a debugger.
If you've used other IDEs like
Code Warrior and Visual Studio,
it's like that.
The good news is that
whatever you have used before,
Xcode probably has something
that does what you want.
The bad news is that
whatever you've used before,
Xcode probably does it
a little bit different.
So we're going to be doing a lot
of orienteering in this session,
helping you map what you
understand from your current
environment to what Xcode does.
You're going to learn
the basics of Xcode,
and we're going to be talking about how
to use it in a little bit different way.
We're going to be talking about how to
use it in a little bit different way.
You're going to learn
the basics of Xcode,
and we're going to be talking about how
to use it in a little bit different way.
You're going to learn the
basics of working with Xcode,
the similarities and differences
between Xcode and the other
IDEs that you may be familiar with,
and do this mental mapping from
Code Warrior or Visual Studio,
or even make file concepts to Xcode.
[Transcript missing]
Bringing your project into Xcode,
if you are coming from Code Warrior,
the best thing to do is make
sure that you've got a great
Code Warrior Tiger application
before you bring it into Xcode 2.1.
The more work you do in an
environment you are familiar with,
the easier it will be to transition
to the unfamiliar environment.
The biggest failures I've seen
are people who have been using
Code Warrior 8.3 or something like that,
have never built for Tiger,
have a CFM application
that isn't up on Mako,
they're not using Carbon Events,
and they try to import
their project into Xcode.
And then they have to face the
entire transition all at once
in an unfamiliar environment.
Try not to do that.
Needless to say,
Xcode is an environment for
Cocoa and Carbon applications.
It won't build -- if you're
starting with something that
has not even been carbonized,
you need to start somewhere else.
Make the migration to MacO.
CFM is not supported on Intel.
It's not supported for PPC64.
MacO is the native executable
format on Mac OS X,
and you need to have your code
building for MacO in order
to use Xcode successfully.
And prepare your code for GCC 4.0.
GCC 4.0 is the compiler
for universal binaries.
There's a session later on this
week about differences in GCC 4.0.
It's a lot stricter on C++ compliance
than earlier versions of GCC,
and there are some things you need
to know about its idiosyncrasies.
So a lot of your coding work is going
to be in just compiler-specific changes.
So we're going to start at milestone one.
If you have opened up the
appearance sample updated project,
loaded milestone one,
loaded that .Xcode project,
we're going to talk
about groups and files.
If you're familiar with the
Code Warrior project window,
then Xcode has a project window
that is remarkably similar to it.
It lists the files in your
applications organized into groups,
and you use it to navigate your project.
If you're familiar with Visual Studio,
you could set up the all-in-one
layout in Xcode preferences,
and you see your groups in your files,
and your embedded editor window.
Xcode has a mode that
works like that as well.
So if you're familiar
with these environments,
you can find your way
around the groups and files.
And to take you through exercise one,
milestone one, here's Scott Tooker.
Scott Tooker: Hi.
Scott Tooker: So just to give another
quick overview here,
there's actually going to be
-- there are going to be at
least five milestones today,
and we're starting out
with appearance sample one.
And in this one,
we're going to talk about the build.
I'm just going to give a quick tour.
This is going to be kind of simple.
If you've used Xcode 1.5 before,
some of this may be review,
but it's good review.
So the first thing I've done here is
I've opened up appearance sample one.
And so you should have on your screen
-- I'm using the default layout.
So if you use the default layout,
this is what it's going to look like.
It's going to be a
little different layout,
but all the pieces are still there.
So the first thing I'm going to
do is just build this project.
And if you've never been to Xcode before,
it can be kind of daunting
because it's like,
well, you know, I click build,
but where's the build information?
So if we go ahead here, let's go ahead,
and I'm just going to do a clean.
Now I can click build here,
but let me bring up the build
results window because this is
actually going to show all the
information that goes on during build.
Let's make that a little bit bigger.
And then go ahead and click build.
So what you'll notice here is we're
going through and we're going through
the various steps of building.
Now there's a lot of different
levels of disclosure here.
Right now we're just looking at the
warnings that are coming through,
but there's a lot more to see.
For example,
if you click on the check mark here,
you'll actually see every step.
And you can just toggle that to
either show all the steps or just,
in this case, if we have any warnings.
You can also say,
I don't want to see any warnings,
I just want to see errors.
And you do that by
toggling this checkbox.
And then finally, we also have the actual
build transcript here.
And one of the nice things about
the build transcript is that it's
linked with the information above.
So, for example,
if I look at all the steps
and click on one of these,
click on one of the steps,
you'll notice that I automatically
go in the build transcript
to that part of the log.
This becomes very useful when you want
to see exactly how something's being done
or when you want to go look for an error.
Or you want to see an exact error
warning and see when it happened.
So, okay, if -- also I'd like to
mention at this point,
I'm purposely doing this on a
PowerBook G4 because it seemed
that doing it on a G5 was unfair.
So I'm trying to pace this
so people can keep up.
This is a 1 GHz G4,
so hopefully I won't get too far ahead.
So anyway, we've gone here, we've built.
You'll notice that it succeeded.
So if you go ahead and if you
close the Build Results window,
where does the product end up?
Well by default,
Xcode puts products in a group
called Products down here.
You can disclose it.
And we actually have what's
called a product reference.
This is a reference to your product.
And you can actually, in 2.1,
you can go through and you can
actually disclose the contents
and see exactly what's in there.
So for example,
if I double click on this Info.plist,
you can double click on it.
You'll see exactly what was produced.
This is really nice sometimes when
you have a complex setup and you have
a bunch of files you're putting in.
This gives you a quick way to look
through and see exactly what was put
into the product that Xcode built.
So speaking of the products group,
we're just going to go through
a quick kind of mini tutorial on
how our files and groups work.
Anyone who's coming from Code Warrior,
this is going to be very similar.
A lot of our files and groups
layout was inspired by Code Warrior.
So for example,
one of the things I want to
do with Appearance Sample
is I'd like to clean it up.
Appearance Sample is a very old project.
It started out as a Code Warrior project.
It's moved into Project Builder,
then Xcode, Xcode 2, Xcode 2.1.
And so there's a little bit of cruft.
One thing that's unfortunate
is they have a sources folder,
and I think, well,
that's where all my sources are.
But not really.
You'll notice if you
disclose the mega-dialog,
there are sources there,
and there are sources under C/Dev.
So just as a quick tutorial,
we're going to clean
this up a little bit.
So the first thing I want
to do is my sources folder
is just kind of a mismatch.
If you actually open it up and look,
you'll see there's a mismatch
of different -- mishmash
of different classes.
And what I'd like to do is have
some directories inside of here to
provide a little bit more structure.
So what I'm going to do
is I'm going to go ahead,
and I'm going to create a new group,
and you can do this by going to File,
New Group.
And I'm going to call this one Dialogues.
Okay, well now what I want to do is
pull everything out of sources
that had to do with Dialogues.
Well, one of the nice things I can do
here is you'll notice I've select
-- if you select the sources group
that we show in the detail view
all the files underneath sources,
and then I can use the search field,
if you click in the search field and type
So I'm going to go ahead and
if you select all those and
drag them underneath dialogs,
now they're located underneath dialogs.
And I can do the same thing.
Go ahead now, and you can also,
we also have contextual menus,
so I want to add another group,
so I'm just going to go to the
contextual menu and say new group.
Go ahead now, and you can also,
we also have contextual menus,
so I want to add another group,
so I'm just going to go to the
contextual menu and say new group.
And the same kind of thing,
just drag them over underneath Windows.
And you can obviously have
groups and other groups.
So for example,
what I'm going to do is I'm
going to take the MegaDialog
and drag it underneath Dialog.
And then finally,
we obviously support multiple selection,
so I'm just going to take all
of these source directories and
drag them underneath sources.
And there they all are.
Now, if you want to rename something,
for example,
this external framework's in-- wow,
I have to extend it all the
way out to here to read it.
But all that's really in here,
if we open it up,
is the Carbon Framework.
So I want to change this name.
Renaming folder references
and groups is very simple.
You simply just-- you
can either option click,
or you can just select Rename and rename.
It's very similar to
Code Warrior in this respect.
And then finally,
we have this supporting files group.
Well, it has this readme.
Well, it would be great if the readme
was up top so when people
first opened up this project,
they could see exactly where it was.
So what I'm going to go ahead and do
is I'm just going to ungroup this.
And you can go ahead and do
this by just using the context
menu and selecting ungroup.
Or you can just go to the file menu.
Oh, sorry, sorry.
Getting ahead of myself.
Currently, this is only available
in the context menu.
So go to the context
menu and say ungroup.
And then we'll just drag this up top.
So now we've just done
a few simple things,
and none of this has affected
any of our build process.
This is all just managing
your files and groups.
It's completely divorced from
what we've actually built,
what the build products are.
And in fact,
what I can do is I can just go
ahead and click Build again.
And you'll notice nothing needed to
be redone because it's all the same.
And with that,
I'll hand it back to Chris.
Great.
How many people kept up?
That's awesome.
That's great.
If you have -- pardon?
I got a crash.
Great!
Click "Report to Apple."
If you have not kept up,
or if you've just gotten up to
speed with Xcode 2.0 installed,
you may now move to Milestone 2.
Milestone 2 is the same project,
but it's in the configuration
that Scott ended at.
And that's true for every
milestone in this session.
If you can't keep up,
you can just close that milestone,
open up the next milestone
for the next segment.
[Transcript missing]
Clicker.
Now in Code Warrior,
if you're used to targets
being in a target pane,
we move targets out into the
regular groups and files tree so
you can look at targets at the
same time you're looking at files,
and it makes it easier to drag and
drop between the two because you're
dragging and dropping in the same tree.
But the organizational
concept is still the same.
A target is a bucket into which you pour
source files that you set settings on.
You choose a target you're building now.
When you build that target,
it comes out with the build project,
build product.
The concept is the same in
Xcode as it is in Code Warrior.
If you're coming from Visual Studio,
they use slightly different terminology.
What we call a target is
what they call a project,
and what we call a project
is what they call a solution.
So think of them as just
being one time zone over.
Just push it over a little bit,
and the terminology maps.
So if you're coming from Visual Studio,
when I say project,
I don't mean project in your sense.
I mean solution.
And when I say target, I mean project.
You can do that mapping.
You use Windows, you're accustomed to it.
If you're coming from
the make file world,
well, make files are a little different
in that everything is a target.
It's just a smooth transition of
granularity from I build one.cp
file and get one.o file to I have
a make file that builds this entire
executable with all of my steps.
And every dependency where a source
creates something is called a target.
We work on a much coarser granularity.
A target is a set of settings and
a collection of sources that build
a build product that's usually
something that you debug or deploy.
So targets on a granular make file level,
or can be really tiny
things or really big things,
we're only talking about
the really big things here.
So now to guide you through
what's in the target,
how to edit targets, how to use targets,
we're going to do the milestone two,
targets and files hands on.
Hi.
So you'll notice that I've gone ahead,
I've closed-- I've opened
up the second milestone.
This milestone, as Chris said,
is going to be about targets.
And what we're going to do in this
case is a fairly simple operation.
We're going to add a new
target to this project.
So appearance sample.
It's not a big project,
but for the purposes,
let's assume it's a huge project.
And we want to actually factor out
some of the code into a static library.
So what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to go to the targets.
I'm going to go to project,
go ahead to project new target,
select that.
And you want to select
the Carbon static library.
You can call this whatever you want.
I'm going to call it MegaDialog since
what I'm going to do is pull in the
MegaDialog code into this target.
And so you notice what we do is we
immediately bring up a target inspector
or a get info window for the target.
I'm going to go ahead and
close that for right now,
but we'll be coming back to it.
Now, what I want to do is if
we go look in sources,
if you disclose sources
and disclose dialogues,
select the mega dialogue group.
You'll notice, okay,
here is selection of files.
I want to add all these to the target.
Well, in 2.1, this is really simple.
All I need to do is let me
get information on that group,
switch to the Targets tab,
And then what you're going to do is
just change the target membership.
Just click on MegaDialog,
unclick on Appearance Sample.
And so for example, and just to show you,
if you go and disclose the target,
now when we compile the sources,
you can see all these sources are here.
Now, there are a few other
things I need to do here.
Because I want Appearance Sample
to use the MegaDialog product,
I need to go ahead and
also add the product.
So you'll notice here
I have this libMegaDialog.a.
It's red because we show files
in red when they don't exist.
These products haven't been built yet.
So for example, I'm going to go ahead and
bring up that same info window,
this time for the library product.
And I can use the same targets panel.
I can just say, you know what,
I want this to be included in
my appearance sample target.
Okay.
Now there's one final thing.
We need to make sure that the MegaDialog
gets built -- library gets built
before we build AppearanceSample.
And so all I need to do here is just
take the MegaDialog target and drag
it under the AppearanceSample target,
and I've created a target dependency.
So now, after doing these steps,
if you go ahead and click build,
and go to build and bring
up the build results window.
You notice that we're building the,
even though the active
target is appearance sample,
you should be building the
mega dialog target first.
is going to be talking about
the Xcode 2.1 and then building
the appearance sample target.
And it's really that simple
for factoring out your code.
If you want to take commonly used
code and put it into a library,
it's really easy in Xcode 2.1
to move pieces of source around,
create the target dependencies,
make sure the proper things get included.
The target pane,
as Chris has said in earlier sessions,
is something we added to 2.1 to
make this just drop dead simple.
And so with that,
I hand it back over to Chris.
Great.
Build succeeded.
OK.
How many of you got Build succeeded?
A few.
That's good.
OK.
More and more will drop off, we expect,
by the end.
Like I said,
this is the first year for this format.
We're still learning it.
You can now,
if you haven't gotten all the
way through milestone two,
you can either finish
up while I'm talking,
or you can proceed to milestone three,
where we'll pick up
So what's different
about Targets and Files?
Well, you set dependencies by
dragging and dropping them,
like you do in Code Warrior,
except you drag and drop into the
build phases under the targets
rather than organizing them in
the tree in the targets pane.
It's still a drag and drop operation,
and you still drag one thing to another,
but you drag them in the Groups and
Files tree right there in your front
window rather than having to go to
a separate target management pane.
If you want to set the link order--
and several people have asked us about
this-- Code Warrior has a separate link
order tab where you set link order.
Well, in Xcode, if you want to change
the link order of files,
you rearrange them in the
build phase under the target.
That's the link order.
You just drag them up and down,
your libraries and your source files,
and that changes the link order.
So same kind of operation,
but you do it in a different place.
Well, now let's talk about
build configurations.
There really isn't a peer for this
in the Code Warrior environment,
but there is in Visual Studio.
If you are familiar with project
configurations in Visual Studio,
target configurations in Xcode are
going to be very familiar to you.
Configurations are used instead of
creating multiple parallel targets.
If you are accustomed to the working
style in Code Warrior of create a target,
add your files, set the settings,
build it, and then clone it to do
a different flavor of it,
that is something that you can
stop doing when you're in Xcode.
If you have two targets that are
named the same or similar and
create the same or similar things
and only differ by settings,
delete one, take the other one,
add a configuration to it,
and make the changes in that.
It's that simple.
You will have fewer targets to manage,
you will have fewer things to
build if you move from targets
to build configurations.
It will make management a lot easier.
Target build settings are set
on a per configuration basis,
so you can have your debug version
and your release version of your
application differ only by what
the configuration setting is,
not by what the source code,
what the membership is.
And there's powerful searching and
filtering inside the Target Inspector to
help you find the settings.
Instead of having to click through
page after page after page of
check boxes that are not described,
even in tool tips,
to figure out what they are,
we have a lot of searching, filtering,
and documentation built right into
the Target Settings Inspector to
show you what's what.
So if you're familiar with the target
inspector in Code Warrior or the
project inspector in Visual Studio,
you should be able to find your way
around the target inspector in Xcode.
So let's do some configuration
hands-on on milestone three.
Okay.
So you'll notice I brought
up milestone three.
We're going to pick up
the pace a little bit now.
The first two milestones were just
trying to get people kind of into
how the general -- how Xcode works.
Now we're going to work a little bit
with configurations and also just
clean up the target settings in this,
to be honest, crusty project.
It has a lot of settings that
probably don't apply anymore.
They could be set at different
levels to be more effective.
But before we get to the actual targets,
we want to set something at the project,
something that's very important.
So, you know, everyone's been asking,
"Well,
how do I build universal binaries?" Well,
the first thing you need
to do is go to the project.
Select -- you know,
click on the info button to
bring up the project inspector.
And let's set that SDK.
We really encourage people, you know,
if you want to do universal development,
you're going to need to remember
to set this SDK for your projects.
So go ahead and set that.
Then we're going to be
dealing with configurations.
And so one thing to make sure is--
If you go ahead and you go to -- sorry,
if you go to the View Customized Toolbar,
or you can Option-Command-click on
the little toolbar widget to bring
up the toolbar customization sheet,
you're going to want to drag in
the active build configuration.
It's going to make some of
this a little bit easier.
So this allows me to see directly
in this window exactly which
configuration we're using.
So let's just do a quick recap.
If I go ahead and look at, for example,
the appearance sample target,
And if you go to the Build tab,
a little bit bigger to
make it easier to see.
[Transcript missing]
And so what I really want to do here
is take most of my debug settings
and use them in a testing context.
Maybe I want to turn off zero
link and fix and continue so
I can hand it off to my testers.
But pretty much it's going
to look similar to debug.
So let's just go ahead and you
can click on the duplicate button
and just type in the name testing.
Now, why did I do this?
I want to really impress on people.
There's nothing special about
the names we assign these things.
It used to be we had development
deployment that caused confusion
because people thought they
were special in some way.
They aren't.
They are just the names
we decided to go with.
In fact, we improved the names, we feel,
this time around, to debug and release.
But you can call them whatever you want.
And you can have however many you want.
One thing to note is
that with configurations,
they are the same across a project.
But if you're going to be
using multiple projects,
it's up to you, the developer,
to manage the configuration namespace
across projects in Xcode 2.1.
So let's go ahead and close,
let's go ahead actually and
switch this over to build.
So now we can look at the project
and we can look at the target.
And what I'm going to do is if you go to
collection and select customize settings,
you can see the settings that
are actually set in this target.
And wow,
there's a lot of settings in the target.
But there are a number of them here that
are going to be the same across both
appearance sample and mega dialogue.
And it seems like a pain
if I have to manage them,
you know, individually.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going
to move a number of these settings.
I'm going to cut them out of the target.
We're going to cut them out of
the target and we're going to
move them over to the project.
So, for example,
the ones we're going to want to cut,
let's take pre-binding.
And you can just do discontinuous
selection with command in this case.
Let's say pre-binding,
stripping debug symbols,
precompiling prefix header,
generating debug symbols,
optimization level,
generate position dependence.
Fix and continue.
And also the warnings.
Turns out that warnings tend to
not be target specific and most
warnings you set are pretty much
not just across your project,
but they're policies you set up
across projects with your team.
So they really don't need
to be just in the target.
They can be at a higher level.
So go ahead and you can cut these.
And let's go over the project.
And now let's go ahead and
let's paste them in here.
And let's go over the project.
And now let's go ahead and
let's paste them in here.
In this case, a better word to use is
"debug." You'll notice that it's
automatically being inherited.
So at this point,
now I'm going to leave a little of this
up to the reader because the next part,
you'll notice I've done
this for one configuration.
We can now go through and we can do
this for each of the configurations.
For example,
I did it for the active configuration,
but now I can, for example,
go to my testing configuration.
And look at all my
customized settings there.
And you'll notice I have a few of them,
but there's still a couple that
I should probably move over,
like the stripping the debug symbols.
Let's say all of those.
And so, for example, over here,
I'll need to move these over also.
So we can just go ahead,
pick the same set of settings.
[Transcript missing]
So as you can see here,
the project level in this case
provides us a nice way to kind of
isolate a bunch of settings that we're
probably only ever going to set once.
And we're probably going to
set it the same way for all
the targets in this project.
Now I've got them in one place.
If I ever have to edit them
across all the targets,
you can just go to the project
inspector and set them there.
While you still have things
like the product name,
the Info.plist file that's being used,
a prefix header that are target-specific
are placed in your target file.
And so with that,
I will hand it back to Chris.
Okay,
so we have veered out of the familiar
into some of the power of Xcode.
If you've been using
Code Warrior for years,
copying and pasting settings
from one target to another,
not easy to do.
You can do it in Xcode.
Sorting your settings,
searching your settings,
finding out what's what.
A lot of power is in the
Xcode target inspector.
It is different.
It's unfamiliar.
It's organized in a different way.
And the settings themselves,
even if you're using the same
linker or similar compiler,
the settings have different names.
But you can use the power of the
inspector to find what you're looking for
and to set it in a very versatile way.
Pretty much everything is different.
You don't need to worry about
keeping targets in sync with Xcode.
We strongly recommend that
you use configurations to
make different settings.
You can easily see what's
unique and different from
one setting to another one,
one configuration to another,
by choosing the customized
settings pop-up in the inspector.
It shows you only what's different
between that target and the
default or the project level.
Anything in boldface is a
target-specific override of your
project setting or of the default.
And multiple targets can
be set to the same level.
So if you've got some
policies or some standards,
set them once, inherit them across all of
your targets automatically.
That really will save you
in settings management.
We're going to be talking a little
bit more about build settings.
What are these settings?
Scott probably ran you
through a ton of settings,
some of which were unfamiliar to you.
Zero link is one that he's
mentioned that is new to you
if you have just come to Xcode.
Zero link is a way to speed up
your compile link debug cycle by
eliminating the link part of it.
When you change one source file in your
build and recompile that one source file,
you can relaunch your application
and it will dynamically bring in
just the object from that source
file rather than having to relink
your entire application or tool.
If you're working on an extremely large
project where your link times are long,
that's very helpful,
but it's only good at debug time.
It is not useful for a distribution
of your product because your build
is going to be a lot more complex.
It's not useful for a distribution of
your product because your product doesn't
have any of its object code in it.
Some of those settings
are unique to Xcode.
You need to find your way around.
We do our settings in a different way.
Rather than having just panel
after panel of checkbox,
we have a list of strings, booleans,
numbers, checkbox values,
things like that.
You can sort the list,
you can search the list,
you can filter the
list in different ways.
What these are is they set values
that look kind of like a list.
They're kind of like environment
variables that are expanded at build time
and are passed to the individual tools.
So for each build setting
that's in this inspector,
there is a symbol that's usually
in all caps and with underscores
in it that exists inside Xcode,
Chris Espinosa and that's expanded
to its value when it's passed
to the underlying build tool.
This looks a lot more like what's
going on in a make file than
it does like what's going on in
Code Warrior where all of those
settings are completely internal.
So really you can think of the
target editor as just a GUI editor
for the settings in a make file.
That really at the base
level is what it's doing.
And you can use that concept in a
very powerful way because you can set
the value of one setting to be based
on the value of a different setting.
And you can propagate things
through your inheritance chain.
It's harder to describe
than it is to show,
so move on to milestone.
to milestone four,
and we'll show you some of
the power of build settings.
Thanks, Chris.
So one of the interesting things is if,
you know,
we've set up these build configurations,
they're built differently.
Okay, so if I quickly go to
give my test or something,
how do I know what I've
given him is the right build,
that it doesn't have zero-length enabled,
that it does have --
it has no optimization,
et cetera?
Well, unfortunately, at least right now,
if we go ahead and look at the products,
It just says AppearanceSample.app.
And actually if you change the
active build configuration,
we will change to show what's building.
You'll notice they all
have the same name.
That's not that useful for me.
So one thing I might want to
do is I might want to have
it so that each configuration
builds with a different name.
So let's go ahead and select
the target Appearance Sample.
And you can either double click on it,
or you can just click the Info button.
This will bring up the get info window.
And so we have this product name here.
And so for example,
you'll notice if you go
to all configurations,
it's set the same.
So let's change that.
Let's go to the debug configuration.
Double-click on the value,
and then let's just add debug.
You'll notice automatically
we notice that,
and so now it's going to be
called debug when we build it.
And for testing, oh,
let's just call it test.
So here now we have the test
version of Appearance Sample.
So for example, if I change here to the
active configuration,
it changes to test.
And for debug, we have the debug version
of Appearance Sample.
And we'll leave release alone
because this is what we're
shipping to our customers.
The name is enough.
Well,
this isn't quite all you'll have to do,
but we're almost done.
The one final thing you'll need to
do is because this is an application,
we need to change the
Info.plist to automatically
pick up the proper product name.
So go ahead and click on
the properties tab here,
and you'll see you get our simple -- you
get our custom UI for editing Info.plist,
but for this hands-on,
go ahead and click the
open Info.plist as file,
because we're going to do some
direct editing of the file.
So what this will do
is open the Info.plist,
close the get info window,
and you'll notice here that
there are a couple places where
we have appearance sample,
and some of these are valid.
So we'll go ahead and click
on the get info window,
and you'll notice here that
there are a couple places where
we have appearance sample,
and some of these are valid.
If we go a little bit further down,
there's what's called the bundle name.
Okay, well,
it turns out the executable name,
we actually should be using
So,
if you go ahead and just type in $_name,
this will actually substitute in
that build setting at build time.
We've actually supported
this since Xcode 2.0.
You can put in any build setting,
custom ones you define,
anything that's listed in the
build settings can be used
and expanded in an Info.plist.
It's actually quite powerful.
And then for the actual bundle name,
Now, you may ask the question, well,
why did I use a different
product name and executable name?
It turns out that Xcode
can make a distinction.
By default, the executable name is just
equal to the product name.
But in some more complex projects,
and especially in the future,
it may be desirable to have your
executable be different from
the actual name the user sees.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go ahead and save that.
So let's go ahead and switch to
the testing configuration and
let's go ahead and bring up the
build results window in build.
So as I said before, the InfoP list,
it can take any build
setting and put it in there.
And also, I'm not showing this
here in this milestone,
but the next milestone will
actually show you how to refer
to one build setting and another.
And it's very, very powerful.
It provides you a lot of flexibility
and kind of allows you to expand on
the base build system we give you to
kind of customize it to your needs.
So for example, now if I go and run this,
you'll notice that now it shows
a parent sample in the menu bar
and when we have the various
dynamically created menu items.
And then if you go back to
the project window and--
is actually right here,
up here in sample test.
So with that, back to Chris.
So this is something that is
different in Xcode 2.1 from Xcode 2.0.
And if you're coming from Code Warrior,
this is going to be a lot more familiar.
In Xcode 2.0 and earlier when we built
different build styles of a product,
they overwrote each other.
And you couldn't have your debug
version or your deployment version
or your development version
side by side in the file system.
In Code Warrior,
you're very used to having your
debug and release version built
independently and live separate lives.
Well,
that's because they're separate targets,
right?
And separate targets are
all built independently.
In Xcode now,
you have the best of both worlds.
You can have one target so
you don't have to manage the
dependencies between two clones.
But they can build in separate
locations with separate names so
you can have your release version
and your debug version be separate.
You can see all the settings in one pane.
You can use searching and filtering.
I've talked about this before.
You can base a build setting on the value
of another setting with setting name.
Scott's going to be doing
that in the next milestone,
actually.
And you can even define
custom settings of your own
to pass to any tool or script.
We'll be doing that one in the next one,
too.
And defining hierarchies of settings,
rather than hard coding
everything per project,
is really useful.
That gets us into customization.
Milestone number five,
you can customize your
code per configuration.
Your code, your resources, your P lists,
and even your shell script build
phases can all be based off
of your build configurations,
the settings in your
build configurations.
This gives you a flexibility to
configure large projects that you
really don't have in other environments.
And so now we're moving
on to milestone five,
customization.
So all the milestones have
kind of led up to this.
So what we wanted to do in this
milestone was do something kind
of cool with build settings,
something that wasn't just
really simple like changing
the name of your application.
What we're actually going to do
here is we're going to conditionally
load in different NIBs based on
which configuration we build.
So what I've done is I've gone
ahead and made a copy of the
main appearance sample NIB and
called it Appearance Sample Debug.
So if you select Resources,
then go to Project, Add to Project,
Now, since you're all using 2.1,
that means you're on Tiger.
So that means we get to
use-- and for example,
this is an appearance sample 5,
so I'll select this.
And then I can just search for debug.
There it is.
So let's just go ahead and add it.
So this is -- and we're going to add
this to the appearance sample target.
There it is.
So let's just go ahead and add it.
So this is -- and we're going to add
this to the appearance sample target.
Okay, well, this is great.
I've added this debug name.
But now I need to actually look at
the code and see how it's actually
calling this appearance sample.
So what I'm going to do
is go to the Find menu.
If you select Find in Project,
And let's just go ahead and search
on the phrase "appearance sample,"
because I know that in this case it
calls and loads it in programmatically.
And so we want to make sure
to look for it in the project,
and we'll just do a find.
Okay, so we get some definitions.
Well, you'll notice here that we get
some cases where it's like this.
Okay, so this looks like the right thing.
We're actually -- it's a T window call.
Okay, well, that's great.
But then as we go down a little bit,
if you'll scroll down,
What you find out is they're passing
around this appearance sample name to
actually give the nib name in T window.
It's used during the construction.
So this is what
I actually want to change.
I want to find every place,
but they don't define it in one place,
which is a little bit unfortunate.
Now, I could do a bunch of if-def-ing
around all these places,
or we could just do a little
bit of work to actually have
this defined in one place.
So let's actually take this CFStir,
and you may wonder, well,
if you haven't done
core foundation before,
well, what's CFStir?
Just take a quick detour here and
show you our documentation support.
There are two things we can do here.
One is that you can always
control-click -- you can
command-double-click on a symbol,
and we'll take you to
where that's defined.
And then also if you have documentation,
you can option double-click something,
and this will bring up the documentation
window and actually do an API search
to provide you documentation.
And this is -- it's really nice.
I use this all the time.
And then once you're in
this documentation window,
it's, you know, just like you expect,
you can click on a link and say, oh,
a CFStringRef.
What's a CFStringRef?
You can go and you can read it.
So that's just a little aside about how
to use some of our navigation features.
But what we're going to do now
is we're going to go ahead and
select this whole section of text,
the CFStir appearance sample.
Let's use this selection for the find.
Mac OS X has a concept
of a find pasteboard,
and so we can actually paste
it into the find pasteboard by
using use selection for find.
And so let's go ahead
and let's find these.
Okay,
so now I have a much more manageable set.
And you'll notice here, for example,
what I was looking for earlier,
now that I'm looking more specifically,
I can see, oh, okay,
here's where it creates
the nib reference.
So looks like we've
picked the right thing.
So let's go ahead and let's
just give this a name.
So instead of putting all this in,
we're just going to give
it some sort of variable,
like let's say app nib name.
And then I'll go down here and I'll
select everything and click replace.
And just say, yes,
you want to replace 12 out of 12.
And so now when we look
at all these sites again,
you can see they've all been changed.
OK, so now we need to go
define this somewhere.
Well, where's a good place to define it?
Well, T window,
it seems to be always being called there.
So maybe I want to go to T window.
Well, another navigation aid
we have is Open Quickly.
And those of you coming
from Code Warrior,
we got a lot of requests for this
before we added it early in Xcode.
And we made some improvements
over the revisions.
So what I'm going to do here is
I'm just going to select T window.
And then you can use
Command Shift D to open Quickly.
But you can also go under the File menu.
It automatically parses that,
and if it just gets a class name,
it will actually look for the header.
But you can also,
if I didn't select anything, for example,
if you just have an insertion point,
it will also do the same thing.
So for example, here I'm hitting Shift,
I'm using the key equivalent.
For example, if it doesn't have anything
that it can actually parse,
it just provides a little text
dialogue that you can type into.
So let's type twindow.h.
Okay, so that's great.
So we're in twindow.h.
So it looks like right before the class,
let's just go ahead.
And put a definition in here.
Now, this is the hardest typing
you're going to have to do,
whole hands-on.
What we're going to do is we're
going to do a simple if-else clause.
So we're going to say if use debug nib.
Oops.
We're not going to make typos.
You're not going to make typos.
I will, but you won't.
And then what I want to
do is I want to declare --
: What was that again?
Let's see.
CFStringRef.
So you notice here I've hit escape
to bring up the code completion so
that I can actually have it remind
me what I was actually going to do.
Nibname equals CFster.
And so, for example,
if we're using the debug nib,
we want to say appearance sample debug.
Otherwise, let's do the end if.
You can just go ahead
and you can copy this.
And we'll just get rid of the debug.
[Transcript missing]
is we want to actually declare this.
Because we're doing this in the header,
sorry.
I jumped ahead.
So now what we've done is we've
just defined this external constant
CFStringRef called app-nibname.
So let's go ahead and save that.
Now to quickly get to
the implementation file,
if you go up here,
there's this navigation
bar where we show,
you know, the number of files that may
have been opened in this editor.
We show you the actual file.
So, I want to give you a little bit of a
quick overview of what we're doing here.
quick overview of what's going on here.
So, we're going to start with the Xcode.
We're going to start with this Xcode.
This part.
So here what we're saying is
if we're using the debug nib,
then we're going to set
this to CFStringRef.
Otherwise, we're going to set it
to AppearanceSample.
So now,
we should have everything in place.
We've actually added the nib file.
We have changed the code so it's going
to use this constcf string ref variable.
And we even have a little ifdef in here.
Wait.
But there's -- and we have
almost everything now.
The last thing we need to do is
actually set up the build settings.
So you'll remember that I created --
if we go back to the project window,
And then for appearance sample,
one thing you can do is if you always
have one target you're editing a lot,
we also have a shortcut,
which is under the project menu.
It's called Edit Active Target,
and I'll give you the name of the target.
It's Command-Option-E.
So for example, in here,
I want to add some settings so
that this will work properly.
So what I want to do is
across all configurations,
I actually wanted to find
a custom build setting,
which we're going to
call Use Special Nib.
And in most cases,
I actually want to show this debug nib,
so let's set it to one.
And it turns out the one
case where I don't release,
I can just go in and change that to zero.
Now, that's great.
So now I've got this
custom build setting.
How do I get that pushed
down into my code?
Well, we use our preprocessor macros
build setting and the ability to
put one build setting in another.
So in this case, just switch over to all
settings and type in macros.
So let's just choose
the preprocessor macros.
And this can actually be the
same for all the configurations.
So we're going to switch
to all configurations,
and we're just going to set in here
Use debug nib equals,
and this is the same,
and then we're going to use the same
syntax we used in the Info.plist.
We're just going to say use
So what this says is that --
and let me make this a little --
and you might want to make it a
little wider so you can see it.
What it says here now,
and if we -- it's a little bit clearer
if you now jump to customize settings
and clear out the search field,
you'll see now we say, okay,
we have some preprocessor
macros we're going to pass down.
Use debug nib is going to
be equal to whatever my use
special nib build setting was.
This allows me across all the
configurations to just have
one setting that's generic.
And then I can use special
build settings to differentiate
it across each configuration.
So at this point,
I should have everything I need.
So we're going to go ahead and
try to build the test sample.
Let's save all the files.
If you want, we can go ahead and we can
bring up the build results.
Now you notice in this case,
we're only rebuilding appearance sample
because it turns out that there was
nothing we changed in MegaDialog at all.
This is all just specific
to appearance sample.
So you'll notice now I have
this little debug menu.
If you've ever played with this,
you'll know that they don't
really have a debug menu.
This doesn't do anything,
but I kind of ran out of time.
And then also in about--
change this to say debug.
But I mean, that's just the beginning.
You can do whatever you want.
This just shows you this is a really
easy way to provide different resources
and conditionally with configurations,
make it a very simple structure so
you can control via configurations
which one you're using.
And with that,
I'll hand it over to Chris.
Okay,
I was doing a little wandering around
the audience and I saw a lot more
closed PowerBooks and a lot more people
reading their mail and things like that.
This was probably the toughest section
to get through and follow through.
How many people actually
tried to follow along?
That's awesome.
Oh, I'm really impressed.
Okay, well, the best part is coming up.
Let's finish up with this.
You saw some real versatile
use of Xcode in that.
You saw Scott using find and replace,
saw him navigating
around in documentation,
navigating into source code,
navigating into framework headers,
saw him making changes and rebuilding,
adding new files, setting up those files,
and conditionally including a file
based on a build configuration
setting that was passed to the source
code in a pre-processing session.
Okay, well, the best part is coming up.
Let's finish up with this.
You saw Scott using find and replace,
saw him navigating
around in documentation,
navigating into source code,
navigating into framework headers,
setting up those files,
and conditionally including a file
based on a build configuration
setting that was passed to the source
code in a pre-processing session.
There really isn't an equivalent
for this in Code Warrior.
It's more like a GUI to make files,
the ability to define a build
setting in one place and pass
it down into your sources.
But now we get to the
real interesting part.
This is what you came for.
If you haven't been following along,
open that PowerBook back up,
load Milestone 6.
We're going to build
Intel binaries right here,
right now.
To build a universal
binary of your application,
it just takes two things.
One is you need to build
it against the SDK,
and we set that up earlier.
And second is you need
to set the architecture,
and you do that by a double-click.
This is going to be the shortest part,
but it's going to be the most
valuable for you in the long run.
Here's Scott.
So first off, there is no milestone six.
There's milestone final.
As you can imagine,
given the secret nature
of this until Monday,
we really couldn't post
up a milestone that said,
look,
here's how to build universal binaries.
But luckily,
this is probably the shortest
of all the milestones.
So as Chris said,
the two things you need-- and
let's go to the general pane
here-- is you need to set an SDK.
We've already done that.
It turns out that we want to do this
across the project because both,
you know, we're going to need both the
parent sample and its static
library to be built in Universal.
So let's just go to the architectures.
And there we go.
Okay, so by default,
we build for the native architecture.
So that means if you're on a PowerPC box,
PowerPC.
If you're on an Intel box, Intel.
Now you can select this and either
you can click on the edit button or
you can double click the setting.
I'll click the edit button.
And you'll notice here, okay, I'm on,
yes, we don't have Intel laptops yet,
so I'm on PowerPC.
But I can go ahead and I can click Intel.
And then I can go ahead and build.
I'm sorry if I went
through that too fast.
But if you should,
most of the time in this particular
milestone is actually spent building.
And so what we've done here is
-- and this is actually code that
has actually been through a lot.
It's a weird mix.
Appearance sample has some new stuff,
but it also has really old stuff, too.
And it actually turns out that I can
build this for Universal without
making any code changes.
If you're interested in
some more of the details,
you can go ahead and you can pop
open the transcript window here.
And what you'll see is we
actually are going through,
for example,
here we're doing the Intel build,
and if I scroll down a little bit later,
you'll notice that we're
doing PowerPC builds later,
if you go through and look.
Let's see if I can find one of them.
For example, here, now we're doing the
same stuff for PowerPC.
And so now if I go out to... If we
go to the projects folder again
and we actually look at this,
we reveal it in the finder,
and we bring up a get info window,
or even better yet,
we just bring up the con...
So now we actually have built Appearance
Dev Sample and it should just launch.
And here now you have a universal binary
with two clicks and some build time.
With that, Chris.
Now,
there are a couple of things about that
build you might have noticed if you were
following along or saw it on the screen.
One thing was that most of
the things that we built,
we built twice,
and that is not unexpected.
If you have a precompiled header,
you need a different precompiled
header for Intel than for PowerPC,
because in the system headers,
there are a lot of poundifs
for Indian issues and things
like that that are different.
If you have different
precompiled headers,
you need two sets of precompiled headers,
but did you have to set any of that up?
No, it happened automatically.
You check the checkbox
for two architectures,
we built two precompiled headers.
Every source file needed
to be recompiled twice,
compiled against the precompiled headers,
against the system headers,
to generate a different .o file.
There were two sets of .o files,
an Intel set, PowerPC set.
At the end, each of them was linked
into a separate executable,
and then the executables
were merged together.
into one build product.
We didn't have to build
our resources twice.
We didn't have to copy our
resources or build our nibs twice.
Everything non-code happened once.
Everything code happened twice.
There's no separate
configuration for PowerPC.
It's just an iteration through all the
compilation steps about code generation.
You just check the checkbox,
and the build system and the compiler
take care of everything for you.
We're using this method to create
a new version of the system.
We're using the term Universal here.
If you're coming from the old world,
you're familiar with
Universal interfaces.
They're different.
They have nothing to do with each other.
Forget about Universal interfaces.
Universal means using
the 10.4 Universal SDK.
And that's what it means.
That is Universal PowerPC Intel.
It's really best not to use
your system provided headers,
because the headers on your
system are not only for that OS,
but they will be for that
configuration of the OS,
whatever machine you're running on.
You can build native on Intel or
PowerPC and you'll get an
executable native for that machine.
If you want to build universal
for machines other than
the one you're running on,
you really, really,
really need to build against the SDK.
And that will also help you on cross
operating system building in the future.
You'll also see one other detail.
You notice he got 57 warnings there.
And that's because he didn't
change to the release build.
He was still building his debug build.
That debug build still
by default uses ZeroLink.
Well, ZeroLink is a technology that's
tightly tied into the loader.
And if you build ZeroLink on
a single architecture,
but you're building
universal using the SDK,
you're going to get those warnings.
It just meant that he couldn't
launch an Intel binary
ZeroLink on his PowerPC machine.
That's pretty much all it meant.
But you notice that the
PowerPC build succeeded,
and that's what he launched.
So we've taken you
through a heck of a lot.
We've taken you from opening up an
ancient appearance sample application
that had its origins in Code Warrior.
It's all Carbon.
It uses resources.
You saw the res build
phase going on up there.
And it's been updated gradually
over the years to run on 10.2.4
and even use some new features.
It's been brought into Xcode.
We saw reconfiguring it,
removing a lot of the old settings,
cleaning it up,
making it use Xcode 2.1 features,
really making it sing with Xcode 2.1,
and building it for Intel all
in the space of an hour.
Thank you very much for following on.
There's a lot more you can do.
Come to the labs.
If you have an application or you
couldn't get through the example,
come to the labs.
Go to developer.apple.com/wwdc2005.
That's where you'll find a
lot of Xcode sample code.
You'll find sample code
for other sessions.
As well, related sessions,
to learn more about the
Xcode user interface,
Wednesday, 5:00, session 403,
power programming with Xcode.
It's going to be a great session.
We're going to take you in depth through
a lot of the things like the SCM system,
like find and replace,
like code completion, like unit testing.
Project management mastery,
we're going to give you the inside
skinny on build configurations and
go into much more depth how to use
them in shell script build phases,
how to invoke code from the command line
as part of an automated build system,
things like that.
And then if you are bringing
code to Xcode for the first time,
you're going to need to come to the
moving to GCC 4.0 session to learn
about the idiosyncrasies of GCC 4.0,
where it's pickier about your
C++ code and what are the new
pragmas you can use in GCC.
Labs, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
starting at 2:00 today,
we're going to have the Xcode team,
the compiler people, the debugger people.
The IDE people, all in the Xcode lab,
helping you bring your projects over,
helping you check those check boxes
and bring your code over to Intel.
If you have comments, questions,
want to know what our
future direction is,
have suggestions,
come to the feedback forum, Friday, 5:00.
We really don't have time for
questions in this session.
If you want to follow up,
we'll be available in the front
row or come to the lab after
lunch starting at 2:00 today.
Matthew Formica is our representative.
He does a great job.
You can get him on email.
Join the Xcode users discussion
list for community-based support.